Decision making under uncertainity
One of the main reasons why decision making under uncertainty is difficult is that decisions have to be made before uncertain outcomes are revealed. 
For example, you must place your bet at a roulette wheel before the wheel is spun. 
Or you must decide what type of auto insurance to purchase before you find out whether you will be in an accident. 
However, before you make a decision, you must at least list the possible outcomes that might occur. 
In some cases, the outcomes will be a small set of discrete possibilities, such as the 11 possible sums (2 through 12) of the roll of two dice. 
In other cases, the outcomes will be a continuum of possibilities, such as the possible damage amounts to a car in an accident. 
In this chapter, we generally allow only a small discrete set of possible outcomes. 
If the actual set of outcomes is a continuum, then we typically choose a small set of representative outcomes from this continuum.

Uncertainities are involved in making e=decisions
First need to come up with all the decision options we have, then we need to come up with a probability associated with that decision and it is very general that
that each decision will be associated with a different probability value
Then we calculate expected value for each decision using actual result or payoff or cost associsated with each decision and probability of each decision.

Decision Trees
A decision problem evolves through time. 
A decision is made, then an uncertain outcome is observed, then another decision might need to be made, then another uncertain outcome might be observed, and so on. 
All the while, payoffs are being received or costs are being incurred. 
It is useful to show all of these elements of the decision problem, including the timing, in a type of graph called a decision tree. 
A decision tree not only allows everyone involved to see the elements of the decision problem in an intuitive format, 
but it also provides a straightforward way of making the necessary EMV calculations.

Excel addin (Precision Trees)

Single stage decisions
Multi stage decisions

Value of information

Baye's Rule
Probability Approach
