Scope 
 
This course is the sequel to Analytical Decision Modeling I where the focus is on deterministic modeling and analysis. We 
shift the emphasis to problems where uncertainty is an important factor, or stochastic modeling and analysis. We will 
learn how to use mathematical modeling and analysis via Excel and Python as a means to better decisions.  
 
How does this course relate to and complement other courses in the MSBA program? One way to view MSBA program 
content is according to three broad categories: (1) data preparation (e.g., collection, cleansing, organizing), (2) pattern 
detection or description/prediction, (3) translating patterns into strategies and actions or prescription.  
 
“prescriptive machine learning is developing fast, especially in the fields of computer science/AI, electrical 
engineering, and statistics” 1 
 
This course mainly falls in the third category, prescription. We start with knowledge of relationships (e.g., how changes in 
product/service attributes affect demand, estimates of mean and variance of competitor response to a bid, etc.) and use 
these relationships to design models to help identify management choices that positively affect such measures as risk 
exposure, profit, and market share. 
 
Course Objectives and Learning Outcomes 
 
The overarching goal of this course is to understand concepts and methods of analytic decision making under uncertainty, 
and to develop your spreadsheet skills for analysis of business problems. By the end of the course, you will be able to: 
 
1. Apply modeling concepts to extract insight for communicating, persuading, and motivating change. 
2. Design, build, test, and use Excel spreadsheets effectively for analysis. 
3. Design,  build,  and  interpret  decision  trees  using  PrecisionTree,  simulation  models  using  @Risk  and  SimPy,  and  
stochastic optimization models, e.g., via @Risk with RiskOptimizer. 
 
W.P. Carey Learning Goals 
 
The  W.P.  Carey  School  of  Business  has  established  the  following learning  goals  for  its  graduate  students.  Items  in  bold  
have significant coverage in this course. 
 
1. Critical Thinking 
2. Communication 
3. Discipline Specific Knowledge 
4. Ethical Leadership or Global Leadership 
 
 
  
 1 Song JS, van Houtum GJ, Van Mieghem JA (2020) Capacity and inventory management: review, trends, and projections. Manufacturing & Service 
Operations Management to appear. 
2 
 
Materials 
 
• Text (same as SCM 518): Winston, W., S.C. Albright. 2019. Practical Management Science, 6th edition, Cengage.2 
Cengage hosts office hours at https://info.cengage.com/OfficeHours_West_Pulido between 1pm -3pm every 
weekday between 1/3 – 2/28. They answer your questions regarding course material registration, etc. 
• Software: Palisades (i.e., PrecisionTree, @Risk) add-ins for Excel and Python (particularly the SimPy library for 
discrete event simulation).  
• About the installation of the Palisades software: 
• Palisades Excel add-ins are available for installation on a PC with purchase of the textbook. For windows users, 
you can easily download and install the software. Unfortunately, this does not work with Mac users.  
• Alternatively, use the link: https://go.palisade.com/TVCengage_Registration.html?isbn=9781337406659 
• If you are a Mac user, I recommend that you use emulation programs such as Bootcamp or Parallel to install 
Windows and then install the Palisades Excel add-ins. Bootcamp is available through Creativity Commons.  
• For Mac users, if at all possible, install the necessary emulation software on your machine so that you can install and 
run Palisades software on your Mac. If not possible, the software is also available through Citrix.  
• This documentation (https://simpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/topical_guides/simpy_basics.html) regarding the SimPy 
library in Python may also be useful. 
• I also recommend the following links: http://www.palisade.com/ and http://www.analytics-magazine.org/. Both contain 
descriptions (including videos) of how methods/software from class are used at different companies and nonprofits. 
 
Grading 
 
• Exam 1       12% 
• Exam 2 (cumulative)   24% 
• Exam 3 (cumulative)   24%  
• 10 problems – learning    15% 
• 4 problems – assessment    5%  
• Group case assignment    20%  
 
Exams        60% 
 
All exams are timed multiple-choice via Canvas and are available during a specified time window. There are no make-
up exams. Exams must be prepared individually with no help from or communication with others until after the due 
date.  
 
Exam 1 contains 10 questions. Exam 2 and 3, which are cumulative, contain 20 questions. The 50 exam questions 
contribute 60% to your grade. However, 10% of the exam questions (i.e., 5 questions) are dropped when computing 
your overall exam score (e.g., if you miss 10 out of the 50 questions, your overall exam score is 91 = 100 × (60-10)/55; 
the maximum possible score is 100). Further details on exam format, coverage, and preparation suggestions are 
available on Canvas. 
 
Problem sets – learning (PSL)  15% 
 
There are 10 PSL problem sets during the term that are structured to promote learning. Each problem set contains 3 
problems and each student submits 1 randomly assigned problem from the set. Your submitted problem will not be 
graded for correctness; it will be graded for completeness and timely completion. The purpose of these assigned 
problems is to promote learning, not to assess knowledge. These problem sets give you practice working through
